Hey guys, welcome back to the course. This lecture,
we're going to talk about a concept in product management
called the data diet.
Now, what do I mean by data diet?
Well, what I mean and what I'm getting at is that when
you are a product manager or an entrepreneur, you
do not make decisions in a vacuum.
You also are not going to make product decisions
with only one single source of information.
Let's say that you wanted to go see a movie.
Would you be satisfied in just pulling people over randomly
in the street, asking them what they thought of the movie, and then basing your decision about whether
or not to see it off what they said.
Well, no.
And if you said yes, that's because it's a low risk maneuver
or you have really low standards.
Shame on you. Building products compared to going to movies,
a little bit different. Building products are a much bigger risk.
When you're building a product, there are no do overs.
And if you make a mistake in building your product,
that can haunt your company's legacy for years. That
movie in this terrible metaphor would instead last,
let's say, a year, or at least one of those ridiculously
long four-hour movies, and you can't leave to go pee.
So you better figure out for sure whether or not you're watching The Shawshank Redemption or Eternal sunshine of the Spotless Mind.
God, that was awful.
When the stakes are that high,
you probably will look for other sources of information.
You might ask your friends or your family, people you trust,
you might read reviews online, you might even
preview it by watching the trailer.
You get the point, and the same goes for product decisions.
When you make a product decision, you're going
to be using a mix of different information sources.
You might use internal feedback from your company,
you might use data you got from user testing, you might use feedback that was submitted online, you might
use the analytics and the engagement stats
from visitors on your page.
You'll even base your decisions off the news, and market trends,
and watching what your competitors do.
There are a lot of different inputs. Customer interviews
and everything we just learned in this section
are a crucial part of making decisions as a product manager.
But they are only one dish in your data diet.
Customer interviews are great but they do have a pair of
vulnerabilities, and that's why it is crucial that you
supplement this information with other sources.
The first vulnerability is that customer interviews,
they don't really scale, it's only you talking to a customer.
You can have one, maybe you can have 10, maybe
you're crazy and you have 50 interviews. That's a lot.
But you could be working with an application that has
thousands of users, so it's actually quite risky to take
three or four interviews and extrapolate that for the entire group.
Who knows if those three people you talked to
were the crazy ones?
The second vulnerability is that this is qualitative data,
and qualitative data is very important,
but you also need quantitative data.
Qualitative is the fluffy stuff, the why, the what, I like this,
I like that. Quantitative is the data that is hard numbers.
0.25% of people clicked on this button.
0.25% of people clicked on this button,
people stayed on your page for 4 minutes and 25 seconds, etc.
Qualitative data is nice and it helps you understand,
but it's kind of left out to dry,
because it's not precise enough, and that's why
you need quantitative as well. Think of qualitative
information more like a barometer of temperature
and quantitative data like an actual thermostat.
So, keep that in mind, you have a data diet. Customer
interviews are just one piece of your dinner meal.
You, as a product manager, will have to make hard
decisions about what inputs to use in your decisions,
which information sources are relevant and which are junk.
In the rest of the course,
we cover a lot of these different input signals and
we also cover in more depth how you can synthesize
this information and make good judgments for your product.
All right, guys. See you in the next lecture.